Opa blog post (#15134)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2024/l7-policy-with-opa/index.md

{{< text yaml >}}
[...]
      containers:
      - image: openpolicyagent/opa:0.61.0-envoy # This is the OPA image version which brings the envoy plugin
        name: opa
[...]
{{< /text >}}

In the configuration, you have enabled the envoy plugin and the port which will listen:

{{< text yaml >}}
[...]
    decision_logs:
      console: true
    plugins:
      envoy_ext_authz_grpc:
        addr: ":9191" # This is the port where the envoy plugin will listen
        path: mypackage/mysubpackage/myrule # Default path for grpc plugin
    # Here you can add your own configuration with services and bundles
[...]
{{< /text >}}

Reviewing the [Envoy's Authorization service documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/service/auth/v3/external_auth.proto), you can see that the message has these attributes:

{{< text json >}}
OkHttpResponse
{
  "status": {...},
  "denied_response": {...},
  "ok_response": {
      "headers": [],
      "headers_to_remove": [],
      "dynamic_metadata": {...},
      "response_headers_to_add": [],
      "query_parameters_to_set": [],
      "query_parameters_to_remove": []
    },
  "dynamic_metadata": {...}
}
{{< /text >}}

> This means that based on the response from the Authz server, the envoy can add or remove headers, query parameters, and even change the response status. So that OPA can do the same as it is described in the [OPA's documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-primer/#example-policy-with-additional-controls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that based on the response from the Authz server, Envoy can add or remove headers, query parameters, and even change the response status. OPA can do this as well, as documented in the [OPA's documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-primer/#example-policy-with-additional-controls).
```

## Testing

Let's test the simple usage (authorization) and then let's create a more advanced rule to show how we can use OPA to modify the request and response.

> Deploy an app to run curl commands to the Httpbin sample application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy an app to run curl commands to the httpbin sample application:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n my-app run --image=curlimages/curl curly -- /bin/sleep 100d
{{< /text >}}

> Apply the first rego rule and restart the OPA deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the first Rego rule and restart the OPA deployment:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f opa-example-1-configmap.yaml

$ kubectl rollout restart deployment -n opa
{{< /text >}}

The simple scenario is to allow requests if they contain the header `x-force-authorized` with the value `enabled` or `true`. If the header is not present or has a different value, the request will be denied.

> There are multiple ways to create the rego rule. In this case, we created two different rules. Executed in order, the first one which satisfies all the conditions will be the one that will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to create the Rego rule. In this case, we created two different rules. Executed in order, the first one which satisfies all the conditions will be the one that will be used.
```

### Simple rule

The following request will return `403`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get
{{< /text >}}

The following request will return `200` and the body:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: enabled"
{{< /text >}}

### Advanced manipulations

> Now the more advanced rule. Apply the second rego rule and restart the OPA deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the more advanced rule. Apply the second Rego rule and restart the OPA deployment:
```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl apply -f opa-example-2-configmap.yaml
> 
> $ kubectl rollout restart deployment -n opa

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl apply -f opa-example-2-configmap.yaml
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment -n opa
```

{{< /text >}}

In that rule, you can see:

{{< text plain >}}
myrule["allowed"] := allow # Notice that `allowed` is mandatory when returning an object, like here `myrule`
myrule["headers"] := headers
myrule["response_headers_to_add"] := response_headers_to_add
myrule["request_headers_to_remove"] := request_headers_to_remove
myrule["body"] := body
myrule["http_status"] := status_code
{{< /text >}}

> And those are the values that will be returned to the envoy proxy. The envoy will use those values to modify the request and response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And those are the values that will be returned to the Envoy proxy from the OPA Server. Envoy will use those values to modify the request and response.
```

> Notice that `allowed is required when returning a JSON object instead of only true/false. This can be found in the documentation [here](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-primer/#output-document).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that `allowed` is required when returning a JSON object instead of only true/false. This can be found in the OPA documentation [here](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-primer/#output-document).
```

#### Change returned body

Let's test the new capabilities:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get
{{< /text >}}

> Now we can change the response body. With "403" the body in the Rego rule is changed to "Unauthorized Request". With the previous command, you should receive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can change the response body. With `403` the body in the Rego rule is changed to "Unauthorized Request". With the previous command, you should receive:
```

{{< text plain >}}
Unauthorized Request
http_code=403
{{< /text >}}

#### Change returned body and status code

Running the request with the header "x-force-authorized: enabled" you should receive the body "Authentication Failed" and error "401":

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get -H "x-force-unauthenticated: enabled"
{{< /text >}}

#### Adding headers to request

Running a valid request, you should receive the echo body with the new header "x-validated-by: my-security-checkpoint" and the header "x-force-authorized" removed:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
{{< /text >}}

#### Adding headers to response

Running the same request but showing only the header, you will find the response header added during the Authz check "x-add-custom-response-header: added":

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -I httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
{{< /text >}}

#### Sharing data between filters

> Finally, since the envoy works with filters, you can pass data to the following envoy filters. That is done using "dynamic_metadata".
> 
> This is useful when you want to pass data to another ext_authz filter in the change or you want to print it in the application logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can pass data to the following Envoy filters using `dynamic_metadata`. This is useful when you want to pass data to another `ext_authz` filter in the change or you want to print it in the application logs.
```

{{< image width="75%"
    link="./opa3.png"
    alt="Metadata"
    >}}

To do so, review the access log format defined in IstioOperator:

{{< text bash >}}
$ cat iop.yaml
{{< /text >}}

You will see this access logs format:

{{< text plain >}}
[...]
    accessLogFormat: |
      [%START_TIME%] my-new-dynamic-metadata: "%DYNAMIC_METADATA(envoy.filters.http.ext_authz)%"
[...]
{{< /text >}}

> The "DYNAMIC_METADATA" is a reserved keyword to access the metadata object. The rest is the name of the filter that you want to access. In your case, the name "envoy.filters.http.ext_authz" is created automatically by Istio. You could verify this by dumping the envoy configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "DYNAMIC_METADATA" is a reserved keyword to access the metadata object. The rest is the name of the filter that you want to access. In your case, the name "envoy.filters.http.ext_authz" is created automatically by Istio. You could verify this by dumping the Envoy configuration:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl pc all deploy/httpbin -n my-app -oyaml | grep envoy.filters.http.ext_authz
{{< /text >}}

And you will see the configurations for the filter.

Let's test the dynamic metadata. In the advance rule, you are creating a new metadata entry: `{"my-new-metadata": "my-new-value"}`.

Run the request and check the logs of the application:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -I httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
> 
> $ kubectl logs -n my-app deploy/httpbin -c istio-proxy --tail 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -I httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
$ kubectl logs -n my-app deploy/httpbin -c istio-proxy --tail 1
```

{{< /text >}}

> You will see in the output the new attributes configured by OPA rego rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see in the output the new attributes configured by OPA Rego rules:
```

---
title: "Can Your Platform Do Policy?"
description: Dive into how Istio and Open Policy Agent (OPA) can be used to enforce layer 7 policies in your platform.

> publishdate: 2024-08-01

Reviewer 2: don't forget to update

Reviewer 2: you forgot to update

{{< text plain >}}
myrule["allowed"] := allow # Notice that `allowed` is mandatory when returning an object, like here `myrule`
myrule["headers"] := headers
myrule["response_headers_to_add"] := response_headers_to_add
myrule["request_headers_to_remove"] := request_headers_to_remove
myrule["body"] := body
myrule["http_status"] := status_code
{{< /text >}}

Those are the values that will be returned to the Envoy proxy from the OPA server. Envoy will use those values to modify the request and response.

Notice that `allowed` is required when returning a JSON object instead of only true/false. This can be found [in the OPA documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-primer/#output-document).

#### Change returned body

Let's test the new capabilities:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get
{{< /text >}}

Now we can change the response body. With `403` the body in the Rego rule is changed to "Unauthorized Request". With the previous command, you should receive:

{{< text plain >}}
Unauthorized Request
http_code=403
{{< /text >}}

#### Change returned body and status code

> Running the request with the header "x-force-authorized: enabled" you should receive the body "Authentication Failed" and error "401":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the request with the header `x-force-authorized: enabled` you should receive the body "Authentication Failed" and error "401":
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -w "\nhttp_code=%{http_code}" httpbin/get -H "x-force-unauthenticated: enabled"
{{< /text >}}

#### Adding headers to request

> Running a valid request, you should receive the echo body with the new header "x-validated-by: my-security-checkpoint" and the header "x-force-authorized" removed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running a valid request, you should receive the echo body with the new header `x-validated-by: my-security-checkpoint` and the header `x-force-authorized` removed:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
{{< /text >}}

#### Adding headers to response

> Running the same request but showing only the header, you will find the response header added during the Authz check "x-add-custom-response-header: added":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the same request but showing only the header, you will find the response header added during the Authz check `x-add-custom-response-header: added`:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app curly -c curly  -- curl -s -I httpbin/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
{{< /text >}}

#### Sharing data between filters

Finally, you can pass data to the following Envoy filters using `dynamic_metadata`. This is useful when you want to pass data to another `ext_authz` filter in the change or you want to print it in the application logs.

{{< image width="75%"
    link="./opa3.png"
    alt="Metadata"
    >}}

To do so, review the access log format you set earlier:

{{< text plain >}}
[...]
    accessLogFormat: |
      [%START_TIME%] my-new-dynamic-metadata: "%DYNAMIC_METADATA(envoy.filters.http.ext_authz)%"
[...]
{{< /text >}}

> The "DYNAMIC_METADATA" is a reserved keyword to access the metadata object. The rest is the name of the filter that you want to access. In your case, the name "envoy.filters.http.ext_authz" is created automatically by Istio. You can verify this by dumping the Envoy configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DYNAMIC_METADATA` is a reserved keyword to access the metadata object. The rest is the name of the filter that you want to access. In your case, the name `envoy.filters.http.ext_authz` is created automatically by Istio. You can verify this by dumping the Envoy configuration:
```
